Proposal for automatic discovery of content routers (#342)
ipfs/specs: src/ipips/ipip-0342.md

but otherwise leave the concrete design for other systems to subsequent
IPIPs.

There is currently not a process by which IPFS nodes can use alternative
content routing systems automatically. This has led to a reliance on
centralized systems, like the hydra boosters, to fill the gap and offer
content only available in network indexers to current IPFS nodes. This strategy
is also insufficient long term because:
1. It limits speed to the use of a globally distributed kademlia DHT
2. It is insufficient for providing content in applications where content grows
    super-linearly to peers, such that the burden on a traditional DHT would
    become unsustainable.

## Detailed design

This spec is designed for the ability of IPFS nodes to automatically discover
and make use of 'content routers'. Content routers are services which are able
to fulfill IPFS's [ContentRouting](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/blob/master/core/routing/routing.go#L26)
API. These routers currently are considered to directly support queries using
the protocols specified by
[IPIP-337](https://github.com/ipfs/specs/pulls/337)
and/or

> [IPIP-327](https://github.com/ipfs/specs/pull/327).

Reviewer: Would it be worth calling out these names as well, so users unfamiliar with the ipip-### dont have to click through

> In addition, this protocol expects that content routers that may be considered
> for auto-configuration/discovery by IPFS nodes will have knowledge of the
> entire CID space - in other words a delegation to such a router may be
> considered 'exhaustive'.
> 

Reviewer: Is it possible to have an exhaustive list of the entire CID space?

Also, the wording here is hard to follow. Maybe something like:

```suggestion
In addition, implementers of this protocol may specify default content routers, but this protocol comes with a few expectations for default content-routers:

Default content routers configured by those implementing this protocol:

* MUST know of the
entire CID space - in other words, a delegation to such a router may be
considered 'exhaustive'

```

Reviewer 2: I also doubt that any single/federated entity will know the entire CID space. It may be possible now, but this certainly doesn't scale.

If we shard the CIDs on different instances, we basically get a DHT (with O(1) lookup if all shards fit in memory). However, it inherits the same weaknesses that the current DHT has, when providing a fair amount of CIDs, you need to open a connection to every single shard. To mitigate this, we might consider introducing intermediary services tasked with CID-to-shard allocation, streamlining access and reducing the number of direct connections needed.

### 0. content-router discovery state tracking

> Nodes will conceptually track a registry about known content routers.
> This registry will be able to understand for a given content router two
> properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nodes will conceptually track a registry of known content routers.
This registry will maintain two properties for a given content router:
```

* reliability - how many good vs bad responses has this router responded
with. This statistic should be windowed, such that the client can calculate
it in terms of the last week or month. This will in practice be stored as
daily buckets of successful and unsuccessful queries against a router, where
success indicates that the router was queried, and the data was subsequently

> retrieved from a node returned as a provider by that router.

Reviewer: Is it possible for a content router who returns a peer that *should* have content, to know that they successfully provided that content?

1. A asks B for providers of bafy1
2. B finds C and tells A about it
3. A asks C for bafy1.

Is this spec requiring A to tell B the result of item 3 above? How is this tracking accomplished?

the current topology will look a bit more like a feedback loop over a
bipartite graph - where one side of the graph is the set of general purpose
IPFS nodes, and the other side are the bootstrap and core-infrastructural
nodes with high connectivity in the network.

### 1. content-routing as a libp2p protocol

IPFS nodes will advertise and coordinate discover of content routers using a
new libp2p protocol advertised as "/ipfs/router-discovery/1.0.0".

The protocol will follow a request-response model.
A node will open a stream on the protocol when it wants to discover new
content routers it does not already know.
The node will request routers from the peer that it does not already know.
To express what it does know, it will query with a bloom filter. The
statistical data structure provides a minimal amount of deniability around
the routers that the client already knows.

* The size of the bloom filter is chosen by the client. It is sized such
that it has a greater than 99% certainly that it will receive a useful
response. The maximum size of a query may be capped by the server, but can be
effectively considered to be under 10kb.

> * The client will hash it's known content routers into the bloom filter

Reviewer 2: typo

```suggestion
* The client will hash its known content routers into the bloom filter
```

to set bits in the filter at the locations to which these known routers
hash.
* The server will have a parameter for a number of servers it wants to return
to content discovery queries. By default this will be 10. (This default is
picked as the result of modeling router propagation). It will iterate through

> it's list of known content routers, hashing them against the bloom filter and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
its list of known content routers, hashing them against the bloom filter and
```

selecting the top routers that are not already known to the client. It will

> return this list, along with it's reliability score for each.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
return this list, along with its reliability score for each.
```

#### protocol messages

Protocol messages are encoded using *cbor*. The following protocol examples demonstrate
the schemas of requests and responses if they were to be encoded with JSON.

A query on the "/ipfs/router-discovery/1.0.0" protocol will look like:

```json
{
  "router": "string",
  "filter": "bytes of the bloom filter"
}
```

A concrete example would be:

```json
{
  "router": "ipni",
  "filter": {"/": {"Bytes": "xhCakxnfIHbzeOjqlbZjawUKf7uvCXAkp0L5z9jF3actECFyCzriAuS1xiyhBCailtsYEwoy/hanhiIHqTZgnA=="}}
}
```

A response is a list of entries, which looks like:

```json
[
  {
    "peer": "multiaddr.MultiAddr",
    "router": "string",
    "score": float
  }
]
```

A concrete example would be:

```json
[
  {
    "peer": "/dns4/cid.contact/tcp/443/https",
    "router": "ipni",
    "score": 0.95
  },
  {
    "peer": "/dns4/dev.cid.contact/tcp/443/https",
    "router": "ipni",
    "score": 0.90
  },
]
```

### 2. probing of the discovery protocol

> A node will probe it's connected peers for content routing updates in two

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A node will probe its connected peers for content routing updates in two
```

situations:

1. When it needs to perform a content routing query, and has not
successfully performed a sync in over a day.

> 2. When it's AutoNAT status indicates it is eligible to be a DHT server, and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. When its AutoNAT status indicates it is eligible to be a DHT server, and
```

> it has not successfully performed a sync in over a day.

Reviewer 2: What is the reasoning here?

node, but it should strive for diversity - an example ordering would be to
rank peers by how recently a content routing discovery query has been make
to that peer, with tie breaking preference for LAN nodes and for nodes
with explicit peering agreements.

Other factors that may be considered include:
* Reputation of the peer, including how long it has been connected and if it
  has served useful content in the past.
* Latency / ping time of the peer.

### 3. selection of routers

Nodes are free to make content routing queries across content routing
systems they are aware of as they wish. An example strategy balancing
user experience and discovery is described.

The node maintains two thresholds:
* good (reliability > 99%, performance < 100ms)
* uncertain (queries < 5)

Content routers meeting the good reliability threshold are ordered by
performance. the top one is queried, as is an 'uncertain' router if
one exists.

These threshold values are maintained for a year for the purposes
of local selection.
They are maintained for a month for the purpose of admitting
knowledge of routers to others - so a client will no longer set bits for

> routers it is aware of but which do not meet it's threshold for 'good'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
routers it is aware of but which do not meet its threshold for 'good'
```
